feat(citizen-house): Add the info for it and RPGF-2 (#554)
ethereum-optimism/community-hub: src/docs/governance/citizenship.md

---
title: Citizenship
lang: en-US
---

## Identity on Optimism

The Citizens’ House relies on the concept of identity-based governance. 
This is distinct from the more common pattern of token-voting governance (as used in [Optimism’s Token House](./token-house.md)). 

To start, the initial set of Citizens in this stage is determined by (a) criteria set by the Optimism Foundation and (b) a special election from the Token House. 

> Citizenship is conferred by a simple entry in the AttestationStation.

Reviewer: link to AttestationStation docs page

In future stages, the Token House and Citizens’ House together will collaborate on ongoing criteria for participation in the Citizens’ House. 

This means the criteria for Citizenship will evolve over time. 
Holding a voting badge in RetroPGF 2 does not guarantee voting rights in all future rounds of RetroPGF, as eventually membership will be determined by governance and may change.

How does this work?

- Optimism has a neutral, permissionless attestation contract called the [`AttestationStation`](./attestation-station.md)
- Optimism Governance (Token + Citizens’ House) has authority over a function that takes the AttestationStation as an argument and uses any data included to determine the set of Citizens

Optimism governance can use any reputation data written to the AttestationStation contract to determine Citizenship in future iterations of the Citizens’ House. 
This system is designed to be flexible and future-proof; rather than prescribe citizenship criteria at the outset, the Collective is keeping true to its principle of iterative governance. 

[See here](./attestation-station.md) for more information on Optimism’s identity layer.

## Becoming a Citizen

> The Citizens’ House is initiated with the set of 96 voters in [RetroPGF 2](./rpgf-2.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Citizens’ House is initiated with the set of 90 voters in [RetroPGF 2](./rpgf-2.md). 
```

> In the long run, Citizenship is intended to be widely distributed to a large group of humans across the Optimism ecosystem with expertise in many different subcultures and industries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Eventually, Citizenship is intended to be widely distributed to a large group of humans across the Optimism ecosystem with expertise in many different subcultures and industries.
```
